I have spent my entire life either at
the schoolhouse on the way to the
schoolhouse or talking about what
happens in the schoolhouse
both my parents were educators my
maternal grandparents were educators and
for the past 40 years I've done the same
thing and so needless to say over those
years I've had a chance to look at
education reform from a lot of
perspectives some of those reforms have
been good some of them have been not so
good and we know why kids drop out we
know why kids don't learn it's either
poverty low attendance negative peer
influences we know why but one of the
things that we never discuss or we
rarely discuss is the value and
importance of human connection
relationships
James comer says that no significant
learning can occur without a significant
relationship George Washington Carver
says all learning is understanding
relationships everyone in this room has
been affected by a teacher or an adult
for years I have watched people teach I
have looked at the best and I've looked
at some of the worst a colleague said to
me one time they don't pay me to like
the kids they pay me to teach a lesson
the kid should learn it I should teach
it they should learn it case closed
well I said to her you know kids don't
learn from people they don't like
she said that's just a bunch of hooey
and I said to her well your year is
going to be long and arduous dear
needless to say it was some people think
that you can either have it in you to
build a relationship or you don't I
think Steven Covey had the right idea he
said you oughta just throw in a few
simple things like seeking first to
understand as opposed to being
understood
simple things like apologizing you ever
thought about that tell a kid you're
sorry they're in shock
I taught a lesson once on ratios I'm not
real good with math but I was working on
it and I got back and looked at that
teacher edition I taught the whole
lesson wrong so I came back to class the
next day and I said look guys I need to
apologize I taught the whole lesson
wrong I'm so sorry I said that's okay
miss Pearson you were so excited we just
let you go
I have had classes that were so low so
academically deficient that I cried I
wondered how am I going to take this
group in nine months from where they are
to where they need to be and it was
difficult it was it was awfully hard how
do I raise the self-esteem of a child in
his academic achievement at the same
time one year I came up with a bright
idea I told all my students you were
chosen to be in my class because I am
the best teacher and you are the best
students they put us all together so we
could show everybody else how to do it
one of the students say really I said
really we have to show the other classes
how to do it so when we walk down the
hall people will notice us so you can't
make noise you just have to strut and I
gave them a saying to say I am somebody
I was somebody when I came out be a
better somebody when I leave I am
powerful and I am strong I deserve the
education that I get here I have things
to do people to impress and places to go
and they said yeah
you say it long enough it starts to be a
part of you and so
I gave a quiz 20 questions student
missed 18 I put a +2 on this paper and a
big smiley face he said Miss Pearson is
different F I said yes he said then
why'd you put a smiley face I said cuz
you on the roll you got to write you
didn't miss them all I said and when we
review this won't you do better
he said yes ma'am I can do better you
see minus 18 sucks all the life out of
you
plus 2 that ain't all bad for years I
watched my mother take the time at
recess to review go on home visits in
the afternoon by combs and brushes and
peanut butter and crackers to put in a
desk drawer for kids that needed to eat
and washcloths and some soap for the
kids too it didn't smell so good see
it's hard to teach kids who stink and
kids can be cruel and so she kept those
things in her desk and years later after
she retired I watched some of those same
kids come through and say to her you
know Miss Walker you made a difference
in my life you made it work for me you
made me feel like I was somebody when I
knew at the bottom I wasn't and I want
you to just see what I've become and
when my momma died two years ago at 92
there were so many former students at
her funeral it brought tears to my eyes
not because she was gone but because she
left the legacy of relationships that
could never disappear can we stand to
have more relationships absolutely will
you like all your children of course not
and you know your toughest kids are
never absent never you won't like them
all and and and the tough ones show up
for a reason it's the connection it's
the relationships and while you won't
like them all the key is they can never
ever know it so teachers become great
actors and great actresses and we come
to work when we don't feel like it and
we listening to policy that doesn't make
sense and we teach anyway we teach
anyway because that's what we do
teaching and learning should bring joy
how powerful would our world be if we
had kids who who were not afraid to take
risk who were not afraid to think and
who had a champion every child deserves
a champion an adult who will never give
up on them who understands the power of
connection and insist that they become
the best that they can possibly be is
this job tough you betcha
oh god you betcha but it is not
impossible we can do this we're
educators we're born to make a
difference thank you
[Applause]
[Music]